Hello everyone, and welcome to the chained
comparison operators lecture.
So, one of the nice features of Python is this ability
to chain multiple comparisons
to perform a more complex test.
And you can use these chained comparisons
as a shorthand for some larger Boolean expressions.
So, in this lecture we're gonna learn how to use
chained comparison operators, and we're gonna introduce
two other important other statements in Python,
which is the and and the or statements
that I have highlighted here.
So let's go ahead and jump into the live code
so I can show you show examples
of chained comparison operators.
Okay, so you remember that
we have just normal comparison operators.
I can say, is one less than two?
That's true.
Is two less than three?
Well that's also true.
So what I can do is I can actually chain these.
I can say, is one less than two
and, is less two less than three?
And that'll output true.
So, that statement will check if one was less than two
and, if two was less than three.
So, another way I could've written that
is with an and statement in Python.
So I could've said, is one less than two
and, is the condition three, excuse me,
two, less than three?
Also true.
So, that checks, makes sure that basically
the and is used to make sure two checks
have to be true in order for that
total Boolean check to be true.
Let's go ahead and see another example.
So, one less than three, we know that's true.
Three greater than two, we know that's also true.
So I can chain these together,
I can say one less than three,
and, is three greater than two.
Oops, sorry.
Greater than two.
And that's true.
So another way I can write that is with the and statement.
So I can say, is one less than three
and, is three greater than two?
And that'll output true.
So it's important to note that Python is actually
checking both instances of the comparisons.
And we can also use or to write comparisons in Python.
For example, I could say,
one equal two,
which we know is false.
Two, less than three, which we know is true.
So what if I wanted, just either of these things to be true?
Just one or the other.
That's where the or statement comes in.
So I can say, hey check if one is equal to two,
or, also check if two is greater than, excuse me,
let's say it's greater than one.
So, as long as one of these statements happens to be true,
then we'll get a true, so,
or means it's only checking that one of the instances
happens to be true.
Because we're using the or operator.
So it needs one or the other to be true.
Let's take a look at one more example
just to drive the point home.
So we know one is equal to one, and I'm gonna write
or, 100 equal to one.
So it just needed one or the other to be true.
And, one equals one was true.
So, that's just it as far as chained comparison operators.
Just a quick overview.
You can go ahead and check out the Jupyter Notebook
if you wanna, some more detail on what we just did,
but, that's basically it, so.
You should a comfortable understanding of,
what and's and the or statements are doing in your code.
But you can basically treat them
as these chained comparison operators.
So go ahead and go to the quiz for this section
to check your understanding.
All right, that's it.
Thanks everyone.